got your bibles and I hope that you do open up to Matthew chapter 5.
Matthew chapter 5 is where we're going to be this morning as we're starting a new series called High Impact.
And so just the goal of this series just to kind of give you an overview is for us to have high impact in the communities that we live, work, and play in right here around us as well as our other campus church locations.
And so high impact, we're going to be talking about that all month, but really leading up to what's going to happen at the beginning of next month
August 3rd and 4th as we jump into serve weekend and so we want to see Concord be used as a conduit of God's goodness and grace and mercy through people to two people in this area by how we love and serve them all to the glory of God so that we have opportunities to share and show the love of Jesus to the people right around us and so we want to have high impact.
in our community around us.
So Matthew chapter 5, starting in verse 13, if you would, open your Bibles and stand with us in honor of God's Word as we read it all together.
So Matthew 5, starting in verse 13, says, you are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored?
It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out into trampled under people's feet.
You're the light of the world.
A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
Nor do people lie to lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house.
In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.
Let's pray.
Help us Father to understand what it is, God, that you were telling your disciples years and years ago, Father, but it is still true and just as powerful for us if we can hold on to this and do this and live this out, what your word teaches us now.
And so use this even now, your name we pray.
Amen.
One of the things that I love about Concord is the way that the people of Concord serve.
You know, our mission to make disciples everywhere, we believe a disciple, when we make a disciple, we are helping people to understand what it means to worship, reach, grow, and serve.
And so that's what we're going to be talking about this month and leading up to Serve Weekend in August.
Very excited about what's going to happen with that.
But when we talk about serving, one of the things that we have done as a body of Christ with 777, our vision to see seven campuses in seven years and also to make ourselves available for ministry use by partnering with seven different organizations and seven different countries for ongoing missions.
I'm reminded of a story that I heard several months ago.
So I brought a photo with me.
So this photo is of some of our mission team back in June.
And down here at the bottom of the screen, holding the hat is Pastor On Hill.
So several years ago, we began partnering with Pastor On Hill to build homes in the community, to build a playground for his church, to share the gospel with hundreds of people in his neighborhood.
And so through Ugo Ministries and our partnership with Ugo in Insanotome, Mexico, we've had the opportunity to do just those things.
But what's interesting is that several years ago, Pastor On Hill asked Pastor Randy, our missions pastor,
speak at his church on a Wednesday night during one of their prayer services.
And so Pastor Andy decided, he goes to our Habersham campus, he decided that you know what, I'm gonna share about our mission and vision as Concord.
And so this was several years ago, so he got up on stage and he shared about the mission and the vision of Concord and how God has called us all to make disciples everywhere, not Concord, but every follower of Jesus Christ.
And so he shared about that.
And then fast forward a little bit more to a couple of years ago,
And a couple of years ago, Pastor Randy and the team were back in Insanada, Mexico, and they were having a conversation with Pastor on Hill.
And Pastor on Hill told him, he said, hey, that message that you gave about the mission and the vision of your church, that struck a nerve with me and with our church.
And since then, we have planted a church campus in this area in Rosarita.
And so that church heard about what
God is doing through our church.
And so that church in Ensenada, Mexico decided, hey, we need to plan a church and increase our influence as well in our community.
So they planted a church.
So that was two years ago.
So last this past month in June is where the photo came from.
Pastor Randy and Pastor Anhill were talking and Pastor Randy remembered that conversation two years ago.
And he asked Pastor Anhill, he said, hey, how was the church going?
And with a big smile on his face, Pastor Anhill said, you would not believe.
how well things are going right now.
He then shared how the church that they had planted two years ago, they now have a building.
And not only did that church have a building that they have to meet in every week, but now they, out of that church, have decided we're gonna go plant another church.
So they're in the process of that.
And then Pastor Angel said, and not only that, we're actually thinking about not just planting that church that we're starting now, but we're thinking about planting another church 30 miles south or 30 miles in a different community.
all because of what God is doing in Insonana Mexico through Concord.
Y'all, that is an amazing thing that we get to be a part of, and I hope you don't miss that this morning, that God is using you and I, the body of Christ, gathered here at Claremont, Delaunica, Habersham, Mount Yona, that He is using us to have maximum impact around the world.
It reminds me also of the important point that God wants to use us to influence the lives of those in our community here.
That yes, we are doing that now through the ways that we serve here in this area in Claremont and other areas, but our prayer and our hope out of this month is that
we would step into some new and some fresh ways and to some continuing ongoing ministry, not only in other parts of the world, but that we would step into some ongoing ministry here.
And we're already doing that, but our hope is that out of what happens in August during our serve weekend, and as we talk about this all through the month of July, is that God would show us and go before us and help us see how He wants to continue to use us to influence our community here.
So that as we influence our community here, the purpose of that is for us to be able to share the gospel with those people that need to hear it.
And so I know what we're going to talk about here in a little bit from Matthew chapter five might seem familiar to you.
You may have heard this before.
You're like, I don't know if I'm going to come back as if they're all you're going to talk about is serving and helping and all that kind of stuff for the rest of the month.
I kind of got that down.
I'm kind of doing some of that.
I help out here.
I do a little bit there.
But I wanna ask you real quick for just a second.
If Jesus wants to use us to impact the lives of those that are in our community, can I just ask you personally?
How are you doing on this?
Go back to that, there we go.
How are you doing right now?
If you were to say, you know what?
This is what's happening and I know Jesus wants me to impact and influence the lives of the people in my community.
What is happening in that regard right now for you?
Because as I was preparing for this and thinking about what pastor on hell in his congregation was doing in Ensenada, Mexico and impacting the lives of the people around him, I started to think about, you know what, Jesus wants us to do the same here and now, and I know Concord is doing that and I'm appreciative of that, but can I just say if we serve a God that doesn't measurably more, let's step into a little bit of that more.
But we got to step into it individually.
And that's the importance of what Jesus was teaching in Matthew chapter five verse 13 through 16.
That's what we're going to talk about today and really just answer a very simple question, but I think it has a profound impact, not just upon our lives, but upon the lives of those that we're trying to reach with the gospel and as what does Jesus say to his disciples in Matthew five that teaches us about serving the community around us.
And so Matthew five, 13 through 16, number one that we need to know that we need to learn is that you can influence
that you can influence other people who are in your community.
Every person in this room has influence.
This past week when we were teaching, one night when we were teaching to the students at Rockingham, to 880 plus students, we're talking about the fact that as you go out of the week,
You know, cause if you've ever been to a summer camp or a mission trip or anything like that, one of the things that you have to do is after, as you leave that, don't let what happened in that week just happen in that week.
Let it continue on in your life.
And so one of my encouragements was that they would, they would go and out of that week, they would preach regularly.
And so I'm saying this to a group of, you know, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 year olds and even adults in the room saying, Hey, out of this week, go out and preach regularly.
And some of us in the church and maybe more than likely in that room, when they heard go out and preach regularly, they probably thought, whoa, hold on a second, preach regularly.
I don't know about that.
But did you know you're preaching every day?
You're preaching, you're influencing, you're impacting someone's life every day.
And that's what Jesus was trying to tell us when he said that you are the salt of the earth.
That you are the salt.
Your presence is felt.
Your presence is known.
How many of you guys have gone to watch a movie this summer?
Anybody gone to watch a movie?
We went and watched one last week.
You know, when you go to watch a movie, like the one thing that you go and get at the movie theaters is what?
Popcorn, right?
You get a big old tub of popcorn, and then you get the big old tub of popcorn, and the point of the big tub of popcorn is that you would then spend your youngest child's inheritance on what?
The big Coca-Cola, right?
You know, you come out of there $60 in a hole and all you got were some goobers, something's wrong.
But what Jesus was saying was that you are the salt of the earth.
In other words, your presence in the world should be led and lived in such a way that when people are around you, they want more of what you have because they have a greater thirst for what they experienced than what they had before.
In other words, when you're around them, the spirit of Christ lived out in you
a gospel center lifestyle around the people in our community that don't know Jesus should draw people to know more and want more of Jesus because they experienced it in you.
That you should live in such a way that salt, like the salt of the popcorn, that you leave them wanting more.
Because there's something different about the way that you live, the way that you speak, the way that you carry yourself.
And do you think
This is just a kind of a personal question for you.
Do you think that the unchurched people that are around you right now?
Personally, think about these relationships that you have.
Do you think those unchurched people that are around you right now are yearning for more of Jesus because of what they see in you right now?
And when Jesus says you're the salt of the earth, he was trying to get us to think about that there is a flavor that we bring to life.
But not only is this this flavor that we bring to life, but also salt was a preservative in that day and still is.
Timothy Keller, founder of Presbyterian Redeemer Church in New York said this, Jesus is indicating that Christians out in the world who were living lives consistent with the gospel keep society from deterioration, from deteriorating morally, socially and culturally.
So not only do we bring flavor to the world, but also in a way, salt, the way it was used to be a preservative, we are preserving the world.
You know, if you took away the objective morality that God has given the church and God has given the law and God has given us to live by, if you take away that objective morality of God, what is right, what is wrong, what is good, what is evil, all of those things, if you take away that objective morality and everybody got to live, how everybody wanted to live, this world would be in chaos.
And some people in our culture today say, no, I don't think it would be in chaos.
I think people would be generally good.
I would ask that person, do you lock your door at night?
Because more than likely, if you think people would be generally good on their own without some sort of objective morality and standard, then you wouldn't lock your door at night.
But Christians have a way of preserving the earth through our witness, through our testimony, through our gospel-centered living.
We are continuing to extend grace to people around us.
the good and general grace of God that he allows for us to experience a good and moral life, but then also we are here to preserve the earth to let people know about the gospel of Jesus Christ.
That the church is still here preaching the gospel because of what it says in 2 Peter chapter three verse nine, that the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowed us, but he is patient toward you, not wishing that anyone should perish, but all should reach repentance.
The purpose of you living
as salt in the earth, the purpose of us being salt in the earth is yes to bring flavor to life, to people would notice that people would turn and come to Jesus, but also that like our purpose of being here is so that we could fulfill the mission of the church by proclaiming the gospel to those who are lost around us.
See, some people can't go to slow, why hasn't it come back yet?
It's because he's letting the church do its work.
And so we,
are here to be salt.
And then what Jesus says, however, if the salt has lost its saltiness, then it's useless.
So don't waste your influence because you can influence others.
But not only that, your life shines brighter with others.
So the number one truth that Jesus was telling us out of that is that you can influence others.
But then number two is that your life shines brighter with other people.
We go to Mississippi and Alabama to visit family.
That's where most of our family is from.
And a lot of times we go out I-20 when we go out to see our family.
And so when we come back home into Georgia, we come back via I-20 through Atlanta.
And this is kind of one of my favorite views right now when we come back home is the view that you get coming back on I-20 towards Atlanta as you top the hill.
I want to say it's almost close to six flags, but I'm really not sure.
But you top the hill and then you see this really just beautiful picturesque scene.
of the Atlanta skyline.
And for me, that's a reminder that we are home, that we have arrived.
But it's an even better reminder of what the Christian life should look like when we remember what Jesus said about you are the light of the world.
When Jesus said you are the light of the world, he is indicating that as a light, we are to point the way and just like a lighthouse points
the way for ships out in the ocean to know where land is, we are pointing the way to Jesus.
Our light, our lifestyle, our living, our message, our words, our actions all indicate and point to the greatest thing, Jesus Christ.
And so we live as light, but then a city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
So Jesus' point was that when we live as a light, it's not just my light that matters, but your light matters too.
And so if your light matters too and your light matters too and all of our lights matter, when those lights come together, they create a city.
And so as every window in the city comes on with the light of the gospel, that is when we shine brighter.
And we, y'all, we need every light.
Years ago when we embarked on 777 in the vision that we felt God was moving us to 228,000 people in our area in Northeast Georgia are unchurched or do not know Jesus Christ as their Savior.
Every light matters.
Every light matters now, today, for the next few weeks, for the next few months is maybe we're sitting in a little bit of time where we're uncertain about what's going to happen.
Y'all, we're still going to be the church.
And so we need every light right now.
Because you don't light a lamp and you don't put it under a basket, but you put it on a stand and it gives light to the whole house.
We were born again and given a purpose and that purpose is to be salt and light in the world around us.
And as we become and continue to live as salt and light in the world around us, we're fulfilling what Jesus came to do.
Jesus came to glorify God and his sacrifice in his life.
And so when we live as salt and light in the world around us, when we do those things, the text just said that they will see your good works and then they will give glory to the Father in heaven.
In other words, Jesus was teaching that as a church, we need these two things and they're synonymous together.
Good works and good words.
That as you live out your life, a gospel-centered life is full of good works
and good words.
And these are important and these always go together because good works without good words is misleading.
In other words, if you have nothing but good works, but you never get good words, the gospel, then you are misleading people.
If we serve, if we give, if we give of our time, of our resources, our energy, our money, all the things that we have, if we go out and serve people in other parts of the world, but we never couple our good works with our good words, we are only making this place a better place to go to hell from.
And so alongside of our good works, we need good words.
And I know there's a lot in the room that probably understand that, but I will say that there is a generation of people coming up within the church that believe, well, we don't need to go out and we don't need to go out and evangelize and share the gospel.
We want to offend anyone.
We don't want to offend anyone to heaven.
And so we need good words and we need good works.
Because good works without good words is misleading.
Check it out in Romans chapter 1 16, it says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel for it is the gospel that has the power of God unto salvation.
It's not your works, it's not your service, it's not my good deeds for other people.
None of that is the power of God into salvation.
It is the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ that is the power of God into salvation.
That's what moves hearts.
That's what makes people new.
That's what makes dead people
come alive.
And so good works without good words is misleading, but also good words without good works is misrepresentation.
You have a lot of words to say, that's great, but you need some good words, some good works to go along with it.
Notice what James chapter two says, if a brother or a sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says, go in peace, be warm and filled,
Without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?
So also faith by itself, if it does not have works is, y'all know the rest of the text, dead.
Good works without good words is misleading, but good words without good works is misrepresentation.
If all we
say are just good words, but we never back it up with good works.
We are misrepresenting what Jesus has placed us here to do.
We will miss out on opportunities to have that conversation with those people that we need to talk about Jesus with.
If we're just saying a bunch of words about them towards them against them, but never coupling that with the good works of Jesus.
And so Jesus always married these two things together.
Good words and good works.
And so out of that, I wanna encourage you to live as salt.
And I think there's four ways that we can do that.
Number one is you need to surrender to Jesus' leadership in your life.
There's a first time for that, but then that's a continual and a daily thing in our life, surrendering to Jesus' leadership in our life.
And then number two, we need to be aware of the God moments.
One of the things that I get to opportunities every now and then to talk to some of our students about when we talk about these God moments in life, sharing the gospel,
sharing your story, talking about Jesus, inviting someone to church, whatever it might be.
Sometimes I hear, man, I wish I would have these opportunities to which I always respond, are you praying about them?
And then not all are you praying about them, but are you looking for them?
And then after you look for them, after you have those God moments, then we need to take advantage of the third one is that we need to lovingly serve other people.
that if we're going to live as salt, we need to surrender to Jesus' leadership in our life, be aware of the God moments in our life, and then be willing to love other people around us, to serve them, to lovingly show Jesus to them daily.
But then finally, the most important part, tell others about Jesus.
Don't leave out the good words.
You can fill it up with good works, but don't leave out the good words.
Tell them about the one person that they need the most.
You know, this past week, we got an opportunity to see that happen while we were in North Carolina.
We were in a bunch of different groups and while we were serving people, we got to serve with good works, but then we also got to share good words and you never know what kind of opportunities come when you share those good works.
And that's the point of what we're doing coming up in August.
In August, August 3rd and 4th, our serve weekend, the purpose of that is to mobilize us all in our communities to go out and to show good works so that we can continue to share good words.
Because I've seen so many times when we go out and you served in the good works, for some reason must be Jesus.
He gives you the opportunity to share the good words.
It's like he puts a door in front of you that says, here it is.
Have fun.
And it's amazing how those two go together and even you in your own life.
Maybe you came to know Jesus because of what someone did in your life, how they served you, how they were humbled before you, how they put your needs above their own needs.
And then out of that, they shared the message of Jesus with you and you came to know him.
That's the point of August 3rd and 4th coming up.
And so if you haven't already, August 3rd and 4th before then, please go online and sign up.
Be a part of the community group.
Talk to us out here in the next step booth.
There's several ways to be a part of that, but we don't want you to miss out on the opportunity to share good words through doing good works.
This past week was a phenomenal week when we got the opportunity, this photo right here, Jesse Norton, our middle school director was in one of the squads for the week.
And in submitting and saying, I'm going to go out and do good works, Jesse then had a door of opportunity open up.
And the Friday night that we were there, three young men got baptized because of the good words that were also shared alongside of the good works.
And so Friday night we found a couch off and somebody brought it by and we baptized three people.
All because we were there doing good works.
And in doing good works, we didn't shy away from doing good words and Jesus used that.
And so Jesus wants to do the same thing in our community here.
He wants our good words and our good works lived out in such a way that the glory of God is displayed.
And so you can influence others.
Jesus wants you to lovingly serve other people.
And by doing that, he wants to use us to have high impact in our communities around here and all of our campuses.
Let's pray.
Jesus, thank you that you were the best example of servanthood.
How you lovingly have served us by offering us a free gift of grace and mercy.
And so Father, as we come into the next few weeks as we have an opportunity to serve people, God, we want to remember that the purpose for which we serve
is so that we get to share that we get to share you that we get to share your truth father that we build the relationships that maybe even during the weekend we don't get to speak into but father that we build the relational equity that will then give us the ability to share with people your good words so help us to do that father help us to have wisdom
As we move into this weekend, Father, I pray for a thousand people to be mobilized across our campuses, God, to serve other people.
That we would be astounded in the impact of the community that you have because of our submission to just say yes to you and to share good works with others.
And so Jesus, if there's anyone in the room today, God, that has not trusted your good words and your good work on the cross for their salvation, Father, we pray that that would happen.
So we got right now in this time that we have together.
We give you this invitation.
We give you this time that we have together.
And we pray, God, that you would be blessed and honored even now.
And then we pray.
Amen.
Hey, with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you don't mind, just a little bit longer.
I want to give you an opportunity.
The best work that was ever done was the work of Jesus Christ on the cross and through His resurrection.
Through Jesus' death and resurrection, we have salvation.
We have life.
And that life isn't just something that starts years from now, as you enter into eternity, but that life starts now.
Jesus created you to be in relationship with Him, but our sin has broken that relationship.
We are separated from God, destined for an eternity separated from Him without Jesus Christ.
But the good news is that He took your sin, your shame, my sin, my shame.
He took it on the cross, died in your place,
was raised from the dead to prove that it not only had the power over sin but over death and that if you would just confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Jesus is Lord then you too will be saved.
So if you hear this morning and that's not a decision that you have made yet we would love to talk to you about that we're going to have a time of invitation.
We'd love to talk to you about what the next step is for you but also if you're here this morning and maybe that is a decision you've made but you just need to be baptized
Baptism is a profession of faith.
It's a way that we say, hey, I'm on the team.
I'm a follower of Jesus Christ.
We want to give you an opportunity to do that as well.
But also if you hear this morning, you thought about partnering with us in ministry by becoming a member here to make disciples.
We'd love to talk to you about that.
So right now across the room, if you guys wouldn't mind, we stand as we sing our final song together, our close our invitation.
Father, thank you.
Be blessed and honored even now.
And then we pray.
Amen.